+++
date = 2026-05-03

[extra.burndown."plato-theaetetus"]
starting = 31
ending =  21
units = "pages"
+++

### Major works meeting

- Continuing Diogenes' _Life of Epicurus_, starting from his introduction as well as Epicurus' last testament
- Ending just just after finishing Epicurus' letter to Herodotus
- Next week we'll cover Epicurus' letter to Pythocles

### Minor works meeting

- Continuing [_Theaetetus_](@works/plato-theaetetus)
- Starting from the midway in **179d**
- Ending around the middle of [**189e**](#theaetetus-189e)

#### _Theaetetus_ reminder for next week: { #theaetetus-189e }

> May 3, 2026—We continue the discussion by returning to the question of whether perception is knowledge. We dismiss this concept by adding a counterpart to everything is motion—that everything is one—and then disproving the motion part. The proof more or less is that if perception is in motion, then it is always fleeting, then knowledge is something that is not. Then we moved to the second half of the discussion and Theodorus abstains and promots Theatetus back to answer questions (since technically Theodorus satisfied his agreement to question Protagorus' ideas).
>
> The discussion turns to oneness and so far it's been of a prelimnary nature, mostly around the idea of what is being and not being, like and unlike, and the first new proposal by Theatetus as to what Knowledge is is that it's true judgement. Then the discuss false judgement and from that discussion prove that knowledge can't be true judgement because there is no such thing as false judgement. Since judgiding comes from what you know, therefore it can't be knowledge.
>
> But this whole part of the discussion has been still kind of general and vague, so it's hard to summarize.
